index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Alex Lynham
tagline: One small step for a developer...
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Hello, my name is Alex and I'm a software engineer who mainly develops for the web. If you're looking for the music journalist, that is me, but you'd be better off finding my music blog <a href="http://www.hipstersunite.net/" target='_blank'>here</a>. This is where I talk to myself about code, repairing guitars, and occasionally, moan about running a [small record label](http://superstardestroyer.co.uk).


## Posts:

5 Jun 2016 &raquo; <a href="/2016/06/05/exploring-dsp-with-spin-fv-1">Exploring DSP with Spin FV-1</a>

30 Dec 2015 &raquo; <a href="/2015/12/30/working-with-localstorage-and-javascript-objects">Working with LocalStorage and JavaScript objects</a>

1 Nov 2015 &raquo; <a href="/2015/11/01/replacing-and-insulating-a-jazzmaster-pickguard">Replacing and insulating a Jazzmaster pickguard</a>

1 Nov 2015 &raquo; <a href="/2015/11/01/tuning-a-6-string-to-drop-a-and-repairing-a-broken-nut">Tuning a 6 String to Drop A and repairing a broken nut</a>

3 Mar 2015 &raquo; <a href="/2015/03/03/quick-zsh-mod">Showing Ruby Version in Agnoster Theme</a>

9 Jan 2015 &raquo; <a href="/2015/01/09/2014-recap">2014 Recap</a> 

11 Dec 2014 &raquo; <a href="/2014/12/11/clojure-for-rubyists-overtone-for-awesomeness">Clojure for Rubyists, Overtone for Awesomeness</a>

18 Aug 2014 &raquo; <a href="/2014/08/18/monitoring-docker-containers-with-monit">Monitoring Docker Containers With Monit</a>

30 July 2014 &raquo; <a href="/2014/07/30/entering-a-running-docker-container">Entering a Running Docker Container</a>

31 May 2014 &raquo; <a href="/2014/05/31/working-with-stardog">Working with the Stardog HTTP API</a>

28 May 2014 &raquo; <a href="/2014/05/28/pricing-changes-at-ssd">Pricing Changes at SSD</a>

3 May 2014 &raquo; <a href="/2014/05/03/a-yearish-at-the-coal-face">A Year(ish) at the Coal Face</a>

7 Jan 2014 &raquo; <a href="/2014/01/07/ember-is-not-a-rails-killer">Ember is not a Rails killer</a>

22 Nov 2013 &raquo; <a href="/2013/11/22/the-new-malinko-ui">The new Malinko UI</a>

27 Jul 2013 &raquo; <a href="/2013/07/26/recap-on-a-year-of-code">Recap on a Year of Code</a>

14 Feb 2013 &raquo; <a href="/2013/02/14/breaking-the-silence">Breaking the silence</a>

30 Nov 2012 &raquo; <a href="/2012/11/30/canvass-v09">Canvass v0.9</a>

25 Nov 2012 &raquo; <a href="/2012/11/25/first-use-of-stackoverflow">First use of StackOverflow</a>

23 Nov 2012 &raquo; <a href="/2012/11/23/learning-to-code-in-2012">Learning to code in 2012</a>

15 Nov 2012 &raquo; <a href="/2012/11/15/the-horror-of-the-mvp-for-a-perfectionist">The horror of the MVP for a perfectionist</a>

8 Nov 2012 &raquo; <a href="/2012/11/15/canvass-cms-and-what-it-means-for-my-next-project">Canvass CMS and what it means for my next project</a>

1 Nov 2012 &raquo; <a href="/2012/11/15/the-new-lit-and-phil-website">The new Lit and Phil website</a>

Commit message:

New post on clojure testing.

index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Alex Lynham
tagline: One small step for a developer...
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Hello, my name is Alex and I'm a software engineer who mainly develops for the web. If you're looking for the music journalist, that is me, but you'd be better off finding my music blog <a href="http://www.hipstersunite.net/" target='_blank'>here</a>. This is where I talk to myself about code, repairing guitars, and occasionally, moan about running a [small record label](http://superstardestroyer.co.uk).


## Posts:

26 July 2016 &raquo; <a href="/2016/07/26/testing-routes-with-luminus-and-compojure">Testing Routes with Luminus and Compojure</a>

5 Jun 2016 &raquo; <a href="/2016/06/05/exploring-dsp-with-spin-fv-1">Exploring DSP with Spin FV-1</a>

30 Dec 2015 &raquo; <a href="/2015/12/30/working-with-localstorage-and-javascript-objects">Working with LocalStorage and JavaScript objects</a>

1 Nov 2015 &raquo; <a href="/2015/11/01/replacing-and-insulating-a-jazzmaster-pickguard">Replacing and insulating a Jazzmaster pickguard</a>

1 Nov 2015 &raquo; <a href="/2015/11/01/tuning-a-6-string-to-drop-a-and-repairing-a-broken-nut">Tuning a 6 String to Drop A and repairing a broken nut</a>

3 Mar 2015 &raquo; <a href="/2015/03/03/quick-zsh-mod">Showing Ruby Version in Agnoster Theme</a>

9 Jan 2015 &raquo; <a href="/2015/01/09/2014-recap">2014 Recap</a> 

11 Dec 2014 &raquo; <a href="/2014/12/11/clojure-for-rubyists-overtone-for-awesomeness">Clojure for Rubyists, Overtone for Awesomeness</a>

18 Aug 2014 &raquo; <a href="/2014/08/18/monitoring-docker-containers-with-monit">Monitoring Docker Containers With Monit</a>

30 July 2014 &raquo; <a href="/2014/07/30/entering-a-running-docker-container">Entering a Running Docker Container</a>

31 May 2014 &raquo; <a href="/2014/05/31/working-with-stardog">Working with the Stardog HTTP API</a>

28 May 2014 &raquo; <a href="/2014/05/28/pricing-changes-at-ssd">Pricing Changes at SSD</a>

3 May 2014 &raquo; <a href="/2014/05/03/a-yearish-at-the-coal-face">A Year(ish) at the Coal Face</a>

7 Jan 2014 &raquo; <a href="/2014/01/07/ember-is-not-a-rails-killer">Ember is not a Rails killer</a>

22 Nov 2013 &raquo; <a href="/2013/11/22/the-new-malinko-ui">The new Malinko UI</a>

27 Jul 2013 &raquo; <a href="/2013/07/26/recap-on-a-year-of-code">Recap on a Year of Code</a>

14 Feb 2013 &raquo; <a href="/2013/02/14/breaking-the-silence">Breaking the silence</a>

30 Nov 2012 &raquo; <a href="/2012/11/30/canvass-v09">Canvass v0.9</a>

25 Nov 2012 &raquo; <a href="/2012/11/25/first-use-of-stackoverflow">First use of StackOverflow</a>

23 Nov 2012 &raquo; <a href="/2012/11/23/learning-to-code-in-2012">Learning to code in 2012</a>

15 Nov 2012 &raquo; <a href="/2012/11/15/the-horror-of-the-mvp-for-a-perfectionist">The horror of the MVP for a perfectionist</a>

8 Nov 2012 &raquo; <a href="/2012/11/15/canvass-cms-and-what-it-means-for-my-next-project">Canvass CMS and what it means for my next project</a>

1 Nov 2012 &raquo; <a href="/2012/11/15/the-new-lit-and-phil-website">The new Lit and Phil website</a>
