---
layout: post
title: "2014 Recap"
description: "It's been a crazy year, so time to take stock... probably."
category: 
tags: [learning, development, recap]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

More for my own sanity than anything else, I thought I'd better put down a list of things that I've learned and achieved in the last year, and then hopefully that'll form the encouragement I need to learn lots of exciting new stuff this year. Props of course go to an employer, [Swirrl](http://www.swirrl.com) that consistently challenge me and force me to learn new stuff, so yeah, that helps too. 

## Languages learned

1. Clojure
2. SPARQL
3. Bash script
4. A _tiny_ bit of Haskell
5. A _tiny_ bit of Supercollider and Overtone, a Clojure wrapper for the SC server

## Technical skills learned

1. Working with RDF data, triples and quads, N3
2. New graph databases (Fuseki, Stardog)
3. Converting tabular data to RDF using Ruby
4. Working with Mapbox/OpenStreetMap
5. Using [Grafter](http://grafter.org) to convert various data sources to RDF using Clojure
6. Vim
7. Emacs (turns out learning vim a couple of months before getting into Clojure was a bad idea)
8. Bootstrapping a bare metal server to run as a Rails or DB box
9. Devops stuff with Rails - setting up Unicorn etc
10. Nginx, reverse proxying, all that good stuff
11. Server-based devops tools - cron, logrotate, monit, taking backups
12. Setting up CI workflows using Jenkins
13. Deploying using Docker - at its most complex, a ten plus container setup across two physical bare metal servers
14. Lots of general unix/linux fu
15. Working with other data stores - MongoDB, Elasticsearch, Memcached
16. Deployment of infrastructure across several physical boxes
17. A little bit more about deployment security and best practice

## Frameworks learned

1. Ember.js
2. Node.js (if that counts at all - a toy project with Express.js is rolled into this)

## Side projects

I kind of wish I'd done more side projects this year.

1. The new SSD website (Ember.js)
2. Generation Ships (a board game with a tiny Ruby script component)
3. Adapting some TextMate N3 syntax highlighting plugins for Sublime Text

## Books read

1. Metaprogramming Ruby
2. Programming Clojure
3. Getting Started with SPARQL
4. Clojure for the Brave and True
5. Understanding Computation (in progress)
6. SICP (in progress)

## Courses started

Definitely need to get more on it about theory learning in 2015.

1. SICP

## Courses completed

1. Udacity CS252
2. Coursera CalArts Introduction to Programming for Musicians with ChucK

## Misc

1. Two talks at NWRUG: one on front end Javascript in Rails, one on Docker

Well, having written all that, could try harder for sure... but it could be worse I reckon. Here's to 2015!
